                       STATE OF NEW YORK
   ________________________________________________________________________

                                     10600

                             IN ASSEMBLY
                                 June 20, 2024
                                  ___________

   Introduced by COMMITTEE ON RULES -- (at request of M. of A. Rajkumar) --
     read once and referred to the Committee on Real Property Taxation

   AN ACT to amend the real property tax law, in relation to abolishing the
     class share system in certain cities; and to repeal certain provisions
     of such law relating thereto (Part A); to amend the real property tax
     law, in relation to a homestead exemption (Part B); to amend the real
     property tax law, in relation to a circuit breaker tax abatement (Part
     C); to amend the real property law and the real property tax law, in
     relation to the assessment of residential cooperative, condominium and
     rental property; and to repeal certain provisions of the real property
     tax law relating thereto (Part D); to amend the administrative code of
     the city of New York, in relation to cooperative housing corporations;
     and to repeal certain provisions of the real property tax law, in
     relation to a partial tax abatement for residential real property held
     in the cooperative or condominium form of ownership (Part E); and to
     amend the administrative code of the city of New York and the real
     property tax law, in relation to the determination of fair market
     value (Part F)

     The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and   Assem-
   bly, do enact as follows:

     Section 1. This act shall be known and may be cited as the "five
   borough fair property tax act".
     § 2. This act enacts into law components of legislation necessary for
   the implementation of New York city property tax reform. Each component
   is wholly contained within a Part identified as Parts A through F. The
   effective date for each particular provision contained within such Part
   is set forth in the last section of such Part. Any provision in any
   section contained within a Part, including the effective date of the
   Part, which makes a reference to a section "of this act", when used in
   connection with that particular component, shall be deemed to mean and
   refer to the corresponding section of the Part in which it is found.
   Section four of this act sets forth the general effective date of this
   act.

   EXPLANATION--Matter in italics (underscored) is new; matter in brackets
                        [ ] is old law to be omitted.
                                                             LBD15160-03-4
     A. 10600                            2

                                    PART A

     Section 1. Subdivision 1 of section 1802 of the real property tax law
   is amended by adding a new paragraph class one-a to read as follows:
     Class one-a: in a city with a population of one million or more (a)
           all one, two and three family residential real property, includ-
           ing such dwellings used in part for nonresidential purposes but
           which are used primarily for residential purposes, including
           property held in cooperative or condominium forms of ownership;
           and provided that, notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
           (g) of subdivision twelve of section one hundred two of this
           chapter, a mobile home or a trailer shall not be classified
           within this class unless it is owner-occupied and separately
           assessed; and (b) residential real property consisting of one
           family house structures owned by the occupant, situated on land
           held in cooperative ownership by owner occupiers; and (c) all
           vacant land 

    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
           (i) other than such land in the borough of Manhat-
           tan,
    TO BE DELETED END

           provided that any such vacant land which is not zoned resi-
           dential must be situated immediately adjacent to property
           improved with a residential structure as defined in subpara-
           graphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, be owned by the same owner
           as such immediately adjacent residential property immediately
           prior to and since January 1, 1989, and have a total area not
           exceeding 10,000 square feet; 

    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
           and (ii) located in the borough of
           Manhattan north of or adjacent to the north side of 110th street
           provided such vacant land was classified within this class on
           the assessment roll with a taxable status date of January 5,
           2008 and the owner of such land has entered into a recorded
           agreement with a governmental entity on or before December 31,
           2008 requiring construction of housing affordable to persons or
           families of low income in accordance with the provisions of the
           private housing finance law; and (d) all residential real prop-
           erty consisting of four-ten unit rental dwellings. Notwithstand-
           ing the foregoing, such vacant land shall be classified accord-
           ing to its use on the assessment roll with a taxable status date
           immediately following commencement of construction, provided,
           further, that construction pursuant to an approved plan for
           affordable housing shall have commenced no later than December
           31, 2010;
    TO BE DELETED END

     § 2. Paragraph class one of subdivision 1 of section 1802 of the real
   property tax law, as amended by chapter 332 of the laws of 2008, is
   amended to read as follows:
     Class one: outside a city with a population of one million or more
           (a) all one, two and three family residential real property,
           including   such dwellings used in part for nonresidential
           purposes but which are used primarily for residential purposes,
           except such property held in cooperative or condominium forms of
           ownership other than (i) property defined in subparagraphs (b)
           and (c) of this paragraph and (ii) property which contains no
           more than three dwelling units held in condominium form of
           ownership and which was classified within this class on a previ-
           ous assessment roll; and provided that, notwithstanding the
           provisions of paragraph (g) of subdivision twelve of section one
           hundred two of this chapter, a mobile home or a trailer shall
           not be classified within this class unless it is owner-occupied
           and separately assessed; and (b) residential real property not
     A. 10600                            3

           more than three stories in height held in condominium form of
           ownership, provided that no dwelling unit therein previously was
           on an assessment roll as a dwelling unit in other than condomin-
           ium form of ownership; and (c) residential real property
           consisting of one family house structures owned by the occupant,
           situated on land held in cooperative ownership by owner occupi-
           ers, provided that; (i) such house structures and land consti-
           tuted bungalow colonies in existence prior to nineteen hundred
           forty; and (ii) the land is held in cooperative ownership for
           the sole purpose of maintaining one family residences for
           members own use; and (d) all vacant land located within a
           special assessing unit which is a city [(i) other than such land
           in the borough of Manhattan], provided that any such vacant land
           which is not zoned residential must be situated immediately
           adjacent to property improved with a residential structure as
           defined in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, be owned
           by the same owner as such immediately adjacent residential prop-
           erty immediately prior to and since January 1, 1989, and have a
           total area not exceeding 10,000 square feet; [and (ii) located
           in the borough of Manhattan north of or adjacent to the north
           side of 110th street provided such vacant land was classified
           within this class on the assessment roll with a taxable status
           date of January 5, 2008 and the owner of such land has entered
           into a recorded agreement with a governmental entity on or
           before December 31, 2008 requiring construction of housing
           affordable to persons or families of low income in accordance
           with the provisions of the private housing finance law. Notwith-
           standing the foregoing, such vacant land shall be classified
           according to its use on the assessment roll with a taxable
           status date immediately following commencement of construction,
           provided further, that construction pursuant to an approved plan
           for affordable housing shall commence no later than December 31,
           2010;] and (e) all vacant land located within a special assess-
           ing unit which is not a city, provided that such vacant land
           which is not zoned residential must be situated immediately
           adjacent to real property defined in subparagraph (a), (b) or
           (c) of this paragraph and be owned by the same person or persons
           who own the real property defined in such subparagraph imme-
           diately prior to and since January 1, 2003;
     § 3. The real property tax law is amended by adding a new section
   1803-c to read as follows:
     § 1803-c. Real property tax rates in a city of one million or more
   during the phase-in period. 1. Beginning in the first year of the phase-
   in period pursuant to subdivision seven of section eighteen hundred five
   of this article, the legislative body of the assessing unit shall levy
   annual taxes at such rates that the revenue projected is no more than
   one per centum greater than the revenue of the previous year, and that
   result in all properties in each property class contributing the same
   percentage of gross levy as the previous year, irrespective of their
   classification in the previous year. Thereafter, any change in annual
   tax rates must retain the same ratio among class rates for the duration
   of the phase-in period.
     2. Beginning with the first year following the phase-in period pursu-
   ant to subdivision seven of section eighteen hundred five of this arti-
   cle, the commissioner of finance shall conduct a ratio study, in accord-
   ance with the most recent Standard on Ratio Studies           from   the
     A. 10600                            4

   International Association of Assessing Officers, to determine the effec-
   tive tax rates of all property classes and recommend any change in their
   ratio.
     3. In the first year following the phase-in period pursuant to subdi-
   vision seven of section eighteen hundred five of this article, the
   legislative body shall set annual tax rates for each property class in
   proportion to its share of the total fair market value of all real prop-
   erty as entered on the most recent final assessment roll.    Thereafter,
   any change in annual tax rates must retain the same ratio among class
   rates until the publication of a new ratio study pursuant to subdivision
   two of this section, whereupon the legislative body may alter the ratio
   of annual tax rates for the coming year in consultation with such study.
     § 4. Subdivision (a) of section 1801 of the real property tax law, as
   added by chapter 1057 of the laws of 1981, is amended to read as
   follows:
     (a) "Special assessing unit" means an assessing unit with a population
   of one million or more, which is not a city.
     § 5. Subdivision (f) of section 1801 of the real property tax law, as
   amended by chapter 191 of the laws of 2001, is amended to read as
   follows:
     (f) "Base proportion" means 

    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
     [either: (1) for a special assessing unit
   which is not a city, the proportion of the taxable assessed value of
   real property which each class constituted of the total taxable assessed
   value of all real property as entered on the final assessment roll
   completed and filed in calendar year nineteen hundred eighty-one of such
   special assessing unit or on the part of that assessment roll applicable
   to a portion of the special assessing unit, except that for town and
   county special districts not included within the definition of portion,
   the applicable roll shall be that which was completed and filed in
   calendar year two thousand one, or (2) for a special assessing unit
   which is a city,]
    TO BE DELETED END

   the proportion of the taxable assessed value of real
   property which each class constituted of the total taxable assessed
   value of all real property as entered on the final assessment roll
   completed and filed in calendar year nineteen hundred eighty-four, and
   as adjusted to account for properties exempted under section four
   hundred fifty-eight of this chapter to the extent such properties are
   taxable for education purposes, provided, however, that the taxable
   assessed value of real property subject to a transition assessment
   pursuant to subdivision three of section eighteen hundred five of this
   article shall be determined from the lesser of the transition assessment
   or actual assessment.
     § 6. Paragraph (b) of subdivision 1 of section 1803-b of the real
   property tax law is REPEALED.
     § 7. Subdivision 2 of section 305 of the real property tax law, as
   added by chapter 1057 of the laws of 1981, is amended to read as
   follows:
     2. All real property in each assessing unit shall be assessed at a
   uniform percentage of value (fractional assessment) 


    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
   [except that, if the
   administrative code of a city with a population of one million or more
   permitted, prior to January first, nineteen hundred eighty-one, a clas-
   sified assessment standard, such standard shall govern unless such city
   by local law shall elect to be governed by the provisions of this
   section]. 
    TO BE DELETED END

   In a city with a population of one million or more, all real
   property in each assessing unit shall be assessed at one hundred percent
   of its fair market value.
     A. 10600                             5

     § 8. Section 1805 of the real property tax law is amended by adding a
   new subdivision 7 to read as follows:
     7. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, in a city
   with a population of one million or more, beginning with the assessment
   roll completed in two thousand twenty-five, for a class one property,
   the assessor shall compute any increase in tax liability due to an
   increase in assessed value as a phase-in pursuant to the provisions of
   this subdivision. The annual tax during each taxable year of the phase-
   in period shall be computed as follows:
     (i) multiply the sales-based valuation of the property in the first
   taxable year of the phase-in by the new tax rate;
     (ii) subtract from the result obtained in subparagraph (i) of this
   paragraph the annual tax for the final taxable year before the phase-in
   period;
     (iii) divide the result obtained in subparagraph (ii) of this para-
   graph by five;
     (iv) add the result obtained in subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph
   to the annual tax for the previous year;
     (v) multiply the most recent sales-based valuation by the new tax
   rate;
     (vi) subtract the result obtained in subparagraph (i) of this para-
   graph from the result obtained in subparagraph (v) of this paragraph;
   and
     (vii) add the result obtained in subparagraph (vi) of this paragraph
   to the result obtained in subparagraph (iv) of this paragraph.
     (b)   For taxable years during the phase-in period, the amount
   prescribed by this subdivision for a property owner qualified for the
   circuit breaker abatement pursuant to section four hundred twenty-five-b
   of this chapter shall be computed to include such reduction.
     (c) If a class one property is sold during the phase-in period, the
   annual tax for the first taxable year after its sale shall be computed
   as follows:
     (i) Multiply the sales-based valuation of the property in the first
   year of the phase-in by the new tax rate;
     (ii) Subtract from the result obtained in subparagraph (i) of this
   paragraph the annual tax for the final taxable year before the phase-in
   period;
     (iii) Divide the result obtained in subparagraph (ii) of this para-
   graph by five;
     (iv) Multiply the result obtained in subparagraph (iii) of this para-
   graph by the number of taxable years remaining in the phase-in period,
   including the one for which this annual tax is computed; and
     (v) Add the result obtained in subparagraph (iv) of this paragraph to
   the result obtained in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph.
     Thereafter, the annual tax shall be the sales-based valuation multi-
   plied by the new tax rate. The amount prescribed by this paragraph
   for a property owner qualified for the circuit breaker abatement pursu-
   ant to section four hundred twenty-five-b of this chapter shall be
   computed to include such reduction.
     § 9. This act shall take effect immediately.

                                    PART B

     Section 1. The real property tax   law   is   amended   by   adding   a   new
   section 420-d to read as follows:
     A. 10600                            6

      § 420-d. Homestead exemption. 1. (a) Within a city having a popu-
   lation of one million or more, any class one property shall be exempt
   from taxation and special ad valorem levies as provided in subdivision
   two of this section.
     (b) To qualify for exemption pursuant to this section, the property
   must be a class one property. If the property is not eligible but a
   portion of the property is partially used by a qualifying owner as a
   primary residence, that portion which is so used shall be entitled to
   the exemption provided by this section.
     (c) The property must serve as the primary residence of one or more of
   the owners thereof.
     (d) For purposes of the exemption authorized by this section, the
   parcel's affiliated income may be less than five hundred thousand
   dollars. As used in this section, the term "affiliated income" shall
   mean the combined income of all of the owners of the parcel who resided
   primarily thereon on the applicable taxable status date, and of any
   owners' spouses residing primarily thereon. The term "income" as used
   herein shall have the same meaning as in subdivision three of this
   section.
     (e) Title to that portion of real property owned by a cooperative
   apartment corporation in which a tenant-stockholder of such corporation
   resides, and which is represented by the tenant-stockholder's share or
   shares of stock in such corporation as determined by its or their
   proportional relationship to the total outstanding stock of the corpo-
   ration, including that owned by the corporation, shall be deemed to be
   vested in such tenant-stockholder. That proportion of the assessment of
   such real property owned by a cooperative apartment corporation deter-
   mined by the relationship of such real property vested in such tenant-
   stockholder to such entire parcel and the buildings thereon owned by
   such cooperative apartment corporation in which such tenant-stockholder
   resides shall be subject to exemption from taxation pursuant to this
   section and any exemption so granted shall be credited by the appropri-
   ate taxing authority against the assessed valuation of such real proper-
   ty; the reduction in real property taxes realized thereby shall be cred-
   ited by the cooperative apartment corporation against the amount of such
   taxes otherwise payable by or chargeable to such tenant-stockholder.
     2. The homestead property tax exemption provided by this section shall
   be as follows:

        ANNUAL INCOME                      PERCENTAGE FAIR MARKET VALUE
                                           ASSESSED VALUATION
                                           EXEMPT FROM TAXATION

        Up to $375,000                               20 per centum
        Over $375,000 up to $400,000                 16 per centum
        Over $400,000 up to $425,000                 12 per centum
        Over $425,000 up to $450,000                 8 per centum
        Over $450,000 up to $475,000                 4 per centum
        Over $475,000 up to $500,000                 2 per centum

     3. The term "income" as used in this section shall mean the "adjusted
   gross income" for federal income tax purposes as reported on the appli-
   cant's federal or state income tax return for the applicable income tax
   year, subject to any subsequent amendments or revisions, reduced by
   distributions, to the extent included in federal adjusted gross income,
   received from an individual retirement account and an individual retire-
     A. 10600                            7

   ment annuity; provided that if no such return was filed for the applica-
   ble income tax year, "income" shall mean the adjusted gross income that
   would have been so reported if such a return had been filed. Provided
   further, that where an income-eligibility determination is wholly or
   partly based upon the income of one or more individuals who did not file
   a return for the applicable income tax year, then in order for the
   application to be considered complete, each such individual must file a
   statement with the department showing the source or sources of their
   income for that income tax year, and the amount or amounts thereof, that
   would have been reported on such a return if one had been filed. Such
   statement shall be filed at such time, and in such form and manner, as
   may be prescribed by the department, and shall be subject to the secrecy
   provisions of the tax law to the same extent that a personal income tax
   return would be. The department shall make such forms and instructions
   available for the filing of such statements. The assessor shall upon the
   request of a taxpayer assist such taxpayer in the filing of the state-
   ment with the department.
     4. Any exemption provided by this section shall be computed after all
   other partial exemptions allowed by law, excluding the school tax relief
   (STAR) exemption authorized by section four hundred twenty-five of this
   title, have been subtracted from the total amount assessed; provided,
   however, that no parcel may receive an exemption for the same PILOT or
   municipal tax purpose pursuant to both this section and section four
   hundred sixty-seven of this title.
     5. The commissioner may require such exemption to be granted upon
   application by the owner or all of the owners of the real property on a
   form prescribed and made available by the commissioner. The applicant
   shall furnish such information as the commissioner shall require. Appli-
   cations for the exemption authorized pursuant to this section shall be
   considered timely filed if they are filed on or before the fifteenth day
   of March of the appropriate year.
     6. It shall be the responsibility of the commissioner to annually
   determine all income standards pursuant to this section, to cause notice
   thereof to be published in the state register, to disseminate notice
   thereof to assessors, and such other parties as deemed appropriate.
     § 2. This act shall take effect immediately.

                                    PART C

     Section 1. The real property tax law is amended by adding a new
   section 425-b to read as follows:
     § 425-b. Property tax circuit breaker abatement. 1. A city with a
   population of one million or more shall provide for a real property tax
   abatement as set forth in this section.
     2. For the purposes of this section:
     (a) "Qualified taxpayer" means a resident individual who owns the
   class one or class two residential real property and who resides in such
   property.
     (b) "Household" or "members of the household" means a qualified
   taxpayer or qualified taxpayers and all other persons, not necessarily
   related, who all reside in the residential real property owned by the
   taxpayer or taxpayers, and share its furnishings, facilities and accom-
   modations; provided that no person may be a member of more than one
   household at one time.
     (c) "Household gross income" means the aggregate adjusted gross income
   of all members of the household for the taxable year as reported for
     A. 10600                            8

   federal income tax purposes, or which would be reported as adjusted
   gross income if a federal income tax return were required to be filed,
   with the modifications in subsection (b) of section six hundred twelve
   of the tax law but without the modifications in subsection (c) of such
   section, plus any portion of the gain from the sale or exchange of prop-
   erty otherwise excluded from such amount; earned income from sources
   without the United States excludable from federal gross income by
   section nine hundred eleven of the internal revenue code; support money
   not included in adjusted gross income; nontaxable strike benefits;
   supplemental security income payments; the gross amount of any pension
   or annuity benefits to the extent not included in such adjusted gross
   income (including, but not limited to, railroad retirement benefits and
   all payments received under the federal social security act and veter-
   ans' disability pensions); nontaxable interest received from the state
   of New York, its agencies, instrumentalities, public corporations, or
   political subdivisions (including a public corporation created pursuant
   to agreement or compact with another state or Canada); workers' compen-
   sation; the gross amount of "loss-of-time" insurance; and the amount of
   cash public assistance and relief, other than medical assistance for
   needy persons, paid to or for the benefit of the qualified taxpayer or
   members of their household. Household gross income shall not include
   surplus foods or other relief in kind or payments made to individuals
   because of their status as victims of Nazi persecution as defined in
   public law 103-286 or any disability compensation received by veterans
   on account of injury or illness incurred or aggravated during military
   service in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq since September eleventh,
   two thousand one. Provided, further, household gross income shall only
   include all such income received by all members of the household while
   members of such household.
     (d) "Net real property tax" means the real property taxes assessed on
   the residential real property owned and occupied by the taxpayer or
   taxpayers after any exemption or abatement received pursuant to this
   chapter.
     3. (a) An abatement provided by this section shall be computed after
   all other exemptions allowed by law have been subtracted from the total
   amount assessed.
     (b) The real property tax on a parcel of an eligible taxpayer shall be
   abated by the abatement amount, which shall be calculated by multiplying
   the taxable assessed valuation, after application of         all   other
   exemptions for which such parcel is eligible, by the abatement tax rate
   determined pursuant to this subdivision, provided that the abatement
   amount shall not exceed ten thousand dollars.
     (c) A qualified taxpayer whose property tax liability is greater than
   ten per centum of their income shall be eligible for an abatement from
   property taxes, up to ten thousand dollars, as follows:

     Household gross income:         Abatement is:
     $58,000 or less                 One hundred per centum of remaining tax
                                     liability which is greater than ten
                                     per centum of household income
     Greater than $58,000 up to      Seventy-eight per centum of remaining
     $65,000                         tax liability which is greater
                                     than ten per centum of household income
     Greater than $65,000 up to      Sixty-three per centum of remaining
     $70,000                         tax liability which is greater than
                                     ten per centum of household income
     A. 10600                            9

     Greater than $70,000 up to       Forty-eight per centum of remaining
     $75,000                          tax liability which is greater than ten
                                      per centum of household income
     Greater than $75,000 up to       Thirty-two per centum of remaining
     $80,000                          tax liability which is greater than ten
                                      per centum of household income
     Greater than $80,000 up to       Seventeen per centum of remaining tax
     $85,000                          liability which is greater than ten
                                      per centum of household income
     Greater than $85,000 up to       Two per centum of remaining tax
     $100,000                         liability which is greater than ten
                                      per centum of household income
     4. (a) Title to that portion of real property owned by a cooperative
   apartment corporation in which a tenant-stockholder of such corporation
   resides, and which is represented by the tenant-stockholder's share or
   shares of stock in such corporation as determined by its or their
   proportional relationship to the total outstanding stock of the corpo-
   ration, including that owned by the corporation, shall be deemed to be
   vested in such tenant-stockholder.
     (b) That proportion of the assessment of such real property owned by a
   cooperative apartment corporation determined by the relationship of such
   real property vested in such tenant-stockholder to such entire parcel
   and the buildings thereon owned by such cooperative apartment corpo-
   ration in which such tenant-stockholder resides shall be subject to the
   abatement pursuant to this section and any abatement so granted shall be
   credited by the appropriate taxing authority against the assessed valu-
   ation of such real property; the reduction in real property taxes real-
   ized thereby shall be credited by the cooperative apartment corporation
   against the amount of such taxes otherwise payable by or chargeable to
   such tenant-stockholder.
     5. The commissioner may require an application for such abatement to
   be made annually by the owner, or all of the owners of the property, on
   forms prescribed by the commissioner, and shall be filed in such
   assessor's office on or before the appropriate taxable status date.
     6. (a) The commissioner of finance shall initially, and annually ther-
   eafter, determine the eligibility of taxpayers for the abatement allowed
   by this section.
     (b) At least sixty days prior to the appropriate taxable status date,
   the assessor shall mail to each person who was granted an abatement
   pursuant to this section on the latest completed assessment roll an
   application form and a notice that such application must be filed on or
   before the taxable status date and be approved in order for the
   exemption to continue to be granted. Failure to mail such application
   form or the failure of such person to receive the same shall not prevent
   the levy, collection and enforcement of the payment of the taxes on
   property owned by such person.
     § 2. This act shall take effect January 1, 2025 and shall apply to
   assessment rolls produced on and after such date.

                                    PART D

     Section 1. Section 581 of the real property tax law is REPEALED.
     § 2. Subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (d) of subdivision 1 of section
   339-y of the real property law, as amended by chapter 223 of the laws of
   1989, is amended to read as follows:
     A. 10600                           10

     (ii) on and after January first, nineteen hundred eighty-four, the
   homestead class of an approved assessing unit which has adopted the
   provisions of section 

    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
   [one thousand nine] 
    TO BE DELETED END

    TO BE ADDED BEGIN
   nineteen 
    TO BE ADDED END

   hundred three of the
   real property tax law, or the homestead class of the portion outside an
   approved assessing unit of an eligible split school district which has
   adopted the provisions of section nineteen hundred three-a of the real
   property tax law; provided, however, that, in an approved assessing unit
   which adopted the provisions of section 

    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
   [one thousand nine] 
    TO BE DELETED END

    TO BE ADDED BEGIN
   nineteen 
    TO BE ADDED END


   hundred three of the real property tax law prior to the effective date
   of this subdivision, paragraph (b) of this subdivision shall apply to
   all such real property (i) which is classified within the homestead
   class pursuant to paragraph one of subdivision (e) of section 

    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
   [one thousand nine] 
    TO BE DELETED END

    TO BE ADDED BEGIN
   nineteen 
    TO BE ADDED END


   hundred one of the real property tax law and (ii)
   which, regardless of classification, was on the assessment roll prior to
   the effective date of this subdivision unless the governing body of such
   approved assessing unit provides by local law adopted after a public
   hearing, prior to the taxable status date of such assessing unit next
   occurring after December thirty-first, nineteen hundred eighty-three,
   that such paragraph (b) shall not apply to such real property to which
   this clause applies. 

    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
   [Provided further, however, real property subject
   to the provisions of this subparagraph shall be assessed pursuant to
   subdivision two of section five hundred eighty-one of the real property
   tax law.]
    TO BE DELETED END

     § 3. Paragraph (b) of subdivision 1 of section 730 of the real proper-
   ty tax law, as amended by chapter 154 of the laws of 1993, is amended to
   read as follows:
     (b) the property is: (i) improved by a one, two or three family
   owner-occupied structure used exclusively for residential purposes other
   than property subject to the assessment limitations of 


    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
   [section
   five hundred eighty-one of this chapter and] 
    TO BE DELETED END

   article nine-B of the real prop-
   erty law or (ii) the property is unimproved and is not of sufficient
   size as determined by the assessing unit or special assessing unit to
   contain a one, two or three family residential structure;
     § 4. Paragraph (b) of subdivision 1 of section 1111 of the real prop-
   erty tax law, as added by chapter 532 of the laws of 1994, is amended to
   read as follows:
     (b) "Residential property" means property which is improved by a one,
   two or three family structure used exclusively for residential purposes
   other than property subject to the assessment limitations of 

    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
   [section
   five hundred eighty-one of this chapter and] 
    TO BE DELETED END

   article nine-B of the real
   property law. A parcel shall be deemed to be residential property for
   purposes of this article if the applicable tax roll shows that (i) the
   assessor has assigned to the parcel a property classification code in
   the residential category, or (ii) the parcel has been included in the
   homestead class in an approved assessing unit, or in class one in a
   special assessing unit.
     § 5. Paragraph (a) of subdivision 1 of section 1113 of the real prop-
   erty tax law, as added by chapter 516 of the laws of 2010, is amended to
   read as follows:
     (a) "Residential property" means property which is improved by a one,
   two, or three family structure used exclusively for residential purposes
   other than property subject to the assessment limitations of 

    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
   [section
   five hundred eighty-one of this chapter and] 
    TO BE DELETED END

   article nine-B of the real
   property law. A parcel shall be deemed to be residential property for
   purposes of this article if applicable tax roll shows that (i) the
   assessor has assigned to the parcel a property classification code in
     A. 10600                           11

   the residential category, or (ii) the parcel has been included in the
   homestead class in an approved assessing unit, or in class one in a
   special assessing unit.
     § 6. This act shall take effect immediately.

                                    PART E

     Section 1. Section 467-a of the real property tax law is REPEALED.
     § 2. Subdivision (g) of section 11-2105 of the administrative code of
   the city of New York, as amended by section 10 of part LL of chapter 407
   of the laws of 1999, is amended to read as follows:
     (g) Every cooperative housing corporation shall be required to file an
   information return with the commissioner of finance as follows: such
   information return shall be filed by February fifteenth of the year two
   thousand and of each year thereafter, covering the reporting period
   beginning on January sixth of the year preceding the filing and ending
   on January fifth of the year of the filing. For reporting periods begin-
   ning before January sixth, nineteen hundred ninety-nine, such informa-
   tion return shall be filed by July fifteenth of each year covering the
   preceding period of January first through June thirtieth and by January
   fifteenth of each year covering the preceding period of July first
   through December thirty-first provided, however, that for the reporting
   period from January first through June thirtieth, nineteen hundred
   eighty-nine, such information return shall be filed by July thirty-
   first, nineteen hundred eighty-nine. The return shall contain such
   information regarding the transfer of shares of stock in the cooperative
   housing corporation as the commissioner may deem necessary, including
   but not limited to, the names, addresses and employer identification
   numbers or social security numbers of the grantor and the grantee, the
   number of shares transferred, the date of the transfer and the consider-
   ation paid for such transfer


    TO BE DELETED BEGIN
   [, provided, however, that if such cooper-
   ative housing corporation elects that such information return be deemed
   an application for an abatement pursuant to paragraph (f) of subdivision
   three of section four hundred sixty-seven-a of the real property tax
   law, such return shall contain the information required pursuant to
   paragraph (d) of subdivision three of such section]. 
    TO BE DELETED END

   The commissioner of
   finance may enter into an agreement with the commissioner of taxation
   and finance of the state of New York to provide that a single informa-
   tion return may be filed for purposes of the tax imposed by this chapter
   and the real estate transfer tax imposed by article thirty-one of the
   tax law.
     § 3. This act shall take effect immediately.

                                    PART F

     Section 1. Section 11-201 of the administrative code of the city of
   New York is amended to read as follows:
     § 11-201 Assessments on real property; general powers of finance
   department. The commissioner of finance shall be charged generally with
   the duty and responsibility of assessing all real property subject to
   taxation within the city. The commissioner shall determine the fair
   market value of real property for the purpose of taxation.
     § 2. The real property tax law is amended by adding a new section
   305-b to read as follows:
     § 305-b. Determination of fair market value. In a city with a popu-
   lation of one million or more, the commissioner of finance of such city
     A. 10600                           12

   shall determine fair market value of real property in such city for the
   purposes of real property taxation.
     § 3. This act shall take effect immediately.
     § 3. Severability clause. If any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivi-
   sion, section or part of this act shall be adjudged by a court of compe-
   tent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair
   or invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined in its opera-
   tion to the clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section or part
   thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment
   shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the
   legislature that this act would have been enacted even if such invalid
   provisions had not been included herein.
     § 4. This act shall take effect immediately provided, however, that
   the applicable effective date of Parts A through F of this act shall be
   as specifically set forth in the last section of such Parts.

